Mds/okta 487538 mobile dynamic UI overview (#3254)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/mobile-idx-sdk-overview/main/index.md

</div>

Each sign-in step may include one or more possible user actions, such as:

- Choosing an authenticator, such as Okta Verify or security questions.
- Entering a One-Time Passcode (OTP).
- Cancelling the sign-in flow.

## Sign-in objects

Each step in the sign-in flow is represented by a number of different SDK objects:

<div class="common-image-format">

![A diagram showing the SDK objects and their relationships.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-objects.png "A diagram that shows the SDK objects for the sign in flow and the relationships between them.")

</div>

- **Response:** The top-level object that represents a step and contains all the other objects. It also indicates a successful sign-in, and is used to send messages for cancelling the sign-in flow, or to retrieve an access token after the sign-in flow succeeds. A response may contain multiple authenticators and remediations.
- **Remediation:** Represents the main user actions for a step, such as enrolling in an authenticator or entering an OTP. It's also used to update values entered by the user and to request the next step in the flow.

> - **Authenticator:** Represents a type, or factor for verifying the identity of a user, such as a username and password.

Reviewer: Username isn't really a factor.  The authenticator, in this case, would be like "Phone", or "Email"

Author: I'm a bit confused by that. I thought authenticators where things like Okta Verify, security questions, and such.... am I missing something?

Reviewer: Correct. You say "Such as a username and password", which is misleading.  A username isn't an authenticator, but a part of identity.  The password part _is_ an authenticator.

Author: This will be in the next commit:

> - **Authenticator:** Represents a type, or factor for verifying the identity of a user, such as a password or OTP.

> - **Method:** Represents a channel for an authenticator, such as using email or SMS for an OTP. An authenticator may have multiple methods.

Reviewer: The method isn't always applicable to authenticators, but when it is, this would be like "SMS" vs "Voice" for the Phone authenticator.

Author: How's this:

> - **Method:** Represents a channel for an authenticator, such as using SMS or voice for an authenticator that uses a phone. An authenticator may have zero or more.

Reviewer: That works!

---
title: Overview of the mobile Identity Engine SDK
---

<div class="oie-embedded-sdk">

Design the implementation of the sign-in flow for your mobile app by understanding the representation of the flow, and with examples of the common parts.

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

## Introduction

> Integrate the Okta sign-in flow into your app in one of two ways: redirect the request to Okta which handles the flow in its own window, or handle each step in the flow by building the appropriate user interface elements, capturing the information, and updating Okta.

Author: Done. In the next commit.

> This guide is an overview of building your own user interface. For information on the redirect model, see <StackSnippet snippet="redirectquickstart" inline />.

Author: Done. In the next commit.

## Sign-in flow

> Okta supports many ways of authenticating the identity of a user during the sign-in flow. An Okta org administrator creates _policies_, different mixes of authentication methods (also called factors), and assigns them to apps, people, groups, and more. Policies also configure how many authentication methods are required (multifactor), and which methods are optional. This results in a large number of possible combinations for the different factors and steps to complete the sign-in flow.

Author: Done. In the next commit.

> Okta supports many ways of authenticating the identity of a user during the sign-in flow. An Okta org administrator creates _policies_, different mixes of authentication methods (also called factors), and assigns them to apps, people, groups, and more. Policies also configure how many authentication methods are required (multifactor), and which methods are optional. This results in a large number of possible combinations for the different factors and steps to complete the sign-in flow.

Author: duplicate

> The Android and iOS Identity Engine SDKs represent the sign-in flow as a state machine. You initialize the machine with the details of your Okta Application Integration, request the initial step in the flow, and cycle through responding to steps until either the user is signed in, cancels, or an error occurs.

Author: I'm using a specific term that the style guide says is supposed to be capitalized... "Application Integration" is the proper noun identifying a the thing in the Okta Admin console.

Unless there's objections I'll leave it as is.

> The Android and iOS Identity Engine SDKs represent the sign-in flow as a state machine. You initialize the machine with the details of your Okta Application Integration, request the initial step in the flow, and cycle through responding to steps until either the user is signed in, cancels, or an error occurs.

Author: duplicate

> The Android and iOS Identity Engine SDKs represent the sign-in flow as a state machine. You initialize the machine with the details of your Okta Application Integration, request the initial step in the flow, and cycle through responding to steps until either the user is signed in, cancels, or an error occurs.

Author: The phrase "is signed in" includes the notion of "success", otherwise they couldn't be signed in. What I did do was make plurality match:

> ...signs in, cancels, ...

<div class="common-image-format">

> ![A diagram showing the sign-in flow.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-basic-flow.png "A diagram that shows the sign-in flow.")

Author: Which is the Title and which is the text that's for visually impaired folks? That is, now do the visually impaired know that there's a diagram, and what the contents are?

> ![A diagram showing the sign-in flow.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-basic-flow.png "A diagram that shows the sign-in flow.")

Author: dupe

</div>

Each sign-in step may include one or more possible user actions, such as:

- Choosing an authenticator, such as Okta Verify or security questions.

> - Entering a One-Time Passcode (OTP).

Author: Although this is used both ways in the docs (do a search ;-) I seem to remember Robert saying that "Passcode" is the correct term.

> - Entering a One-Time Passcode (OTP).

Author: I'll Slack it.

> - Entering a One-Time Passcode (OTP).

Author: duplicate

> - Entering a One-Time Passcode (OTP).

Author: Fixed.

- Cancelling the sign-in flow.

## Sign-in objects

> Each step in the sign-in flow is represented by a number of different SDK objects:

Author: I don't agree with this correction. The objects represent the various parts of the flow... the flow doesn't map to anything.

> Each step in the sign-in flow is represented by a number of different SDK objects:

Author: dupe

> Each step in the sign-in flow is represented by a number of different SDK objects:

Author: Changed it to this:

> The SDK represents the sign-in flow using a number of different objects:

<div class="common-image-format">

![A diagram showing the SDK objects and their relationships.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-objects.png "A diagram that shows the SDK objects for the sign in flow and the relationships between them.")

</div>

> - **Response:** The top-level object that represents a step and contains all the other objects. It also indicates a successful sign-in, and is used to send messages for cancelling the sign-in flow, or to retrieve an access token after the sign-in flow succeeds. A response may contain multiple authenticators and remediations.

Author: The sentences are talking about additional functional of the Response object. From that perspective "can" doesn't really make sense because the Response object does those things... "can" implies it might rather than it does. Any other suggestions?

> - **Response:** The top-level object that represents a step and contains all the other objects. It also indicates a successful sign-in, and is used to send messages for cancelling the sign-in flow, or to retrieve an access token after the sign-in flow succeeds. A response may contain multiple authenticators and remediations.

Author: dupe

> - **Response:** The top-level object that represents a step and contains all the other objects. It also indicates a successful sign-in, and is used to send messages for cancelling the sign-in flow, or to retrieve an access token after the sign-in flow succeeds. A response may contain multiple authenticators and remediations.

Reviewer 2: Again it's a pasive voice thing (is used to) so I was working around that. How about

It will also indicate a successful sign-in, send messages to cancel the sign-in flow, and retrieve an access token after the sign-in flow succeeds.

I know it's a future tense thing, but its the best I have off the top fo my head.

> - **Response:** The top-level object that represents a step and contains all the other objects. It also indicates a successful sign-in, and is used to send messages for cancelling the sign-in flow, or to retrieve an access token after the sign-in flow succeeds. A response may contain multiple authenticators and remediations.

Author: I used this for the next revision:

> It includes a property that indicates a successful sign-in and functions for cancelling the sign-in flow, or retrieving the access token after the sign-in flow succeeds.

> - **Remediation:** Represents the main user actions for a step, such as enrolling in an authenticator or entering an OTP. It's also used to update values entered by the user and to request the next step in the flow.

Author: I think this needs a revisit. After reading this I realized that you don't update values in a remediation, you update them in a Field object. The text is going to change.

> - **Remediation:** Represents the main user actions for a step, such as enrolling in an authenticator or entering an OTP. It's also used to update values entered by the user and to request the next step in the flow.

Author: I updated both Remediation and Field (though field is getting ridiculously long for a bullet list):

> - **Remediation:** Represents the main user actions for a step, such as enrolling in an authenticator or entering an OTP. A remediation object is also used to request the next step in the flow.
> - **Field:** Represents an item displayed in the UI, either a static element, such as a label, or a user input, such as a selection list. In addition to recording the associated user input, a field object contains state information, such as whether the associated value is required. Options, or lists of choices, are represented by a collection of fields. A field may also contain a form that contains more fields.
>

> - **Remediation:** Represents the main user actions for a step, such as enrolling in an authenticator or entering an OTP. It's also used to update values entered by the user and to request the next step in the flow.

Author: dupe

> - **Remediation:** Represents the main user actions for a step, such as enrolling in an authenticator or entering an OTP. It's also used to update values entered by the user and to request the next step in the flow.

Author: Take 3 for Field:

> - **Field:** Represents a UI element, either a static item, such as a label, or user input, such as a selection list. It includes properties for state information, such as whether the associated value is required. Properties also store the current value of user input field, such as the string for an OTP or the selected choice. Options, or lists of choices, are represented by a collection of fields. A field may contain a form that contains more fields.

- **Authenticator:** Represents a type, or factor for verifying the identity of a user, such as a password or OTP.
- **Method:** Represents a channel for an authenticator, such as using SMS or voice for an authenticator that uses a phone. An authenticator may have zero or more.

> - **Capability:** A user action, that's associated with a remediation, authenticator, or method, such as requesting a new OTP or a password reset.

Author: dupe

> - **Field:** Represents an item displayed in the UI, either a static element, such as a label, or a user input, such as a selection list. It also contains state information, such as whether the associated value is required. Options, or lists of choices, are represented by a collection of fields. A field may also contain a form that contains more fields.

Author: The first change points out that neither one of us is really satisfied with that wording. Perhaps something like (I've made this change and it will be in the next commit):

> "Represents a UI element, either a static item, such as a label, or user input, such as..."

The second suggestion changes the emphasis and possibly the semantics. In the original "options" and "lists of choices" are the subject, and therefore go up front (active voice.) As the subject, they are represented by collections, rather than collections representing them... collections represent a lot of other things as well.

> - **Field:** Represents an item displayed in the UI, either a static element, such as a label, or a user input, such as a selection list. It also contains state information, such as whether the associated value is required. Options, or lists of choices, are represented by a collection of fields. A field may also contain a form that contains more fields.

Author: dupe

- **Form:** Contains the fields that represent the user action for a remediation.

> - **Configuration:** Contains the settings used by the SDK to connect to an Application Integration in an Okta org.

Author: Same comment as above, Application Integration is a proper noun that unambiguously identifies something in the Okta org rather than "app" which is ambiguous. "app integration" could refer to the app the developer is writing as its an app integration with the Okta SDK.

Unless there's strong reason to the contrary I'm leaving the text as is.

> - **Configuration:** Contains the settings used by the SDK to connect to an Application Integration in an Okta org.

Reviewer 2: The Infodev style guide suggests using app to refer to apps / app integrations created in the Admin Console and using application to refer to the UI or to formalize a particular 3rd-party application in a process.

This is pretty consistent across dev.okta. 
Also , the only time I can find it used and capitalised is when it is used in the Application Integration Wizard

> - **Configuration:** Contains the settings used by the SDK to connect to an Application Integration in an Okta org.

Author: That sounds like a conversation is needed for that bit of the style guide because of the the high likelihood of confusing what "app" or "app integration" is referring to. In the mobile development word "app" means an application on a mobile device and nothing else. In developer documentation, it usually means "the app that you are working on."

It may be that there's more wiggle room in desktop or web development, but there's none in mobile.

The power of a capitalized proper noun is that it makes it absolutely clear what the thing is 😉.

For now I'm going to stick with the capitalized versions... we can always update it later.

> - **Configuration:** Contains the settings used by the SDK to connect to an Application Integration in an Okta org.

Reviewer 2: Probably much like the OTP conversation, this is something that should be discussed and then corrected across the site. Leave it for now and we can come back to it.

> - **Client:** Represents the session during the sign-on flow.

Reviewer 2: dupe

> - **Client:** Represents the session during the sign-on flow.

Author: Nice catch. Fixed

## Objects and the flow

<div class="common-image-format">

![A diagram showing the relationship between the SDK objects the sign-in flow.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-objects-and-flow.png "A diagram that shows the main objects associated with each stepp in the sign-in flow.")

</div>

The main objects associated with each step in the flow are:

| Sign-in step         | Objects                         |
| :------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| Initialize SDK       | Configuration <br/> Client      |
| Request initial step | Client                          |
| Receive step         | Response                        |

> | Check signed-in      | Response <br/> Remediation      |

Author: Changed it:

> Check completion, cancel, or error

> | Check signed-in      | Response <br/> Remediation      |

Author: dupe

| Gather user input    | Remediation <br/> Authenticator |
| Send input           | Remediation                     |
| Done                 | Response                        |

## Common parts of the flow

Some parts of the sign-in flow are the same:

- Add the SDK to your app.
- Configure the SDK.
- Initialize the client and start the flow.
- Process the response.
- Request a token.
- Sign the user out.

### Add the SDK

<StackSnippet snippet="adddependency" />

### Create and manage configurations

The values for a configuration object are:

| Value         | Description |
| :------------ | :---------- |

> | Issuer        | The Oauth 2.0 URL for the Okta org, such as `https://oie-123456.oktapreview.com/oauth2/default`. |

Author: Nice catch. Fixed.

> | Client ID     | The ID of the Okta Application Integration from the Okta Admin Console.  |

Reviewer 2: Marking resolved until app integration wording is agreed on

| Redirect URI  | A callback URI for launching the mobile app, such as `com.example.oie-123456:/callback`. |

> | Scopes        | A space separated list of the requested access scopes for the app. For more information, see [Scopes in OpenID Connect & OAuth 2.0 API](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/oidc/#scopes).|

Author: fixed

> The configuration information in a shipping app is usually static. You can initialize the configuration values directly in the code or by reading them in from a file. During development you may want to provide a way to edit configuration values.

Author: Dupe

<StackSnippet snippet="loadingaconfiguration" />

### Start sign-in

Start the sign-in flow by creating an SDK client using a configuration, and then requesting the first step.

<StackSnippet snippet="initializingsdksession" />

### Process the response

The steps for processing a response are:

1. Check for a successful sign-in flow.
1. Check for messages, such as an invalid password.
1. Check for remediations.
1. Process the remediations.
1. Process the authenticators.

After the user enters the required information, update the remediation and request the next step.

<StackSnippet snippet="processresponse" />

> ### Complete the sign in flow

Author: Fixed in the next commit (post 5:50pmGMT)

Check the response for a successful sign in at each step of the flow. When the user is signed in, exchange the remediation for an access token, and then exit the flow.

<StackSnippet snippet="gettingatoken" />

### Sign out a user

Sign out a user by revoking the access token granted when the user signed in, and by revoking a refresh token if one exists.

<StackSnippet snippet="signingout" />

## Sign-in flow UI

There are two general approaches for adding the sign-in flow to your app: add a fixed number of authentication methods, possibly in a fixed order, or generate the user interface dynamically based on the response at each step.

For a fixed number of methods (a static UI), you create appropriate views and populate them from the response. Using a static UI introduces risk as both the authentication methods and the order may be changed at any time by an administrator of your Okta org. There are three requirements to reduce that risk:

- Update the code in the app before policy changes are enabled.
- The updated app can be distributed to users before the policy changes are enabled.
- Ensure that the app is updated on all your users' devices.

> The usual way to satisfy the last condition is with an enterprise managed workforce app. Also note that there's additional risk as external events may require an immediate policy change that can result in the inability of mobile users to sign in.

Author: Fixed the hyphen.

For the two items above (well, the one item as it's a dupe), nice catch. I rewrote it:

> - Update the code in the app before policy changes are enabled.
> - Distribute the updated app to users before the policy changes are enabled.
> - Ensure all your users' devices use the updated.

---
title: Overview of the mobile Identity Engine SDK
---

<div class="oie-embedded-sdk">

Design the implementation of the sign-in flow for your mobile app by understanding the
representation of the flow, and with examples of the common parts.

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

## Introduction

Integrate the Okta sign-in flow into your app in one of two ways: redirect the request to
Okta which handles the flow in its own window, or handle each step in the flow by
building the appropriate user interface elements, capturing the information, and updating
Okta.

This guide is an overview of building your own user interface. For information on the redirect model, see <StackSnippet snippet="redirectquickstart" inline />.

> ## Sign-in flow

Author: Sign-in flow is the general term. There may be multiple challenge and enrollments in one sign-in flow (e.g. signing on after adding a new required authenticator means enrolling in that authenticator plus answering any other challenges for previously enrolled factors.)

> ## Sign-in flow

Reviewer 2: OK, let it stand then. I need to note that down somewhere and possibly add it to some other docs. 

As to the nav bar, I only meant changing the name of the H2 at this point.  The (Self-)Registration flow incorporates a sign-in too so that would be separate but inextricably tied to this work.

Okta supports many ways of authenticating the identity of a user during the sign-in flow.

> An Okta org administrator creates _policies_, different mixes of authentication methods

Author: Re the emphasis, this is Susan approved (see the replies to your comments above) so it's fine.

As to the wording, I used the structure above because I'm introducing a potentially new term. I use emphasis and the comma to indicate "this is a new term that you may not know", "here's a simple definition."

> Okta supports many ways of authenticating the identity of a user during the sign-in flow. An Okta org administrator creates _policies_, different mixes of authentication methods (also called factors), and assigns them to apps, people, groups, and more. Policies also configure how many authentication methods a sign-in flow requires (multifactor), and which methods are optional. This results in a large number of possible combinations for the different factors and steps to complete the sign-in flow.

Author: I want to check in on something because there's a reason I structured the paragraph as I did and used the terms I did. This article is for someone who may know nothing about the terminology of the domain (authenticators, factors, etc.) The paragraph services two functions: it introduces them to the terminology, and it builds to the climax of "implement a dynamic UI."

It looks like you're recommending using the term "authenticators". If that's the case, then how about this:

> Okta supports many ways of authenticating the identity of a user during the sign-in flow. An Okta org administrator creates _policies_, different mixes of authenticators, or ways of authenticating a user (also called factors), and assigns them to apps, people, groups, and more. Policies also configure how many authenticators a sign-in flow requires (multifactor), and which are optional. This results in a many possible combinations of the different authenticators, the steps in the sign-in flow.

> Okta supports many ways of authenticating the identity of a user during the sign-in flow. An Okta org administrator creates _policies_, different mixes of authentication methods (also called factors), and assigns them to apps, people, groups, and more. Policies also configure how many authentication methods a sign-in flow requires (multifactor), and which methods are optional. This results in a large number of possible combinations for the different factors and steps to complete the sign-in flow.

Reviewer 3: I actually like my revision better since it doesn't use factors and authenticators in unclear ways. However, for sake of time - I'll let you make the call. We can always go back and revise it if needed.

> Okta supports many ways of authenticating the identity of a user during the sign-in flow. An Okta org administrator creates _policies_, different mixes of authentication methods (also called factors), and assigns them to apps, people, groups, and more. Policies also configure how many authentication methods a sign-in flow requires (multifactor), and which methods are optional. This results in a large number of possible combinations for the different factors and steps to complete the sign-in flow.

Author: We're getting there. It's important to remember the goal of the paragraph and it's role in the overall story, the flow of this guide. This paragraph:

- Defines the key Okta org concepts associated with the sign-on flow: policies, authenticators.
- I also used it to define methods, factors, multifactor because that's my understanding of what these terms are... it sounds like I have an incorrect association, and if so, please help me understand them so that the terms can be introduced appropriately. It's important that a developer gets a rudimentary understanding of factors and multifactor before the next paragraph (and it's OK to introduce an interim paragraph if that makes sense.)
- Worries the reader by making it clear there are lots of different authenticators that can occur in many different ways during the flow, that may or may not be required, and that can be changed at any time by someone else.

For example, that's why I use the word "many" in the first sentence. It's the first point for forming an association between ways of authenticating, and that there are many (it takes at least 3 exposures to an association expressed somewhat differently to form the association in short-term memory... The strength of the association depends on the engagement level of the person.)

> The Android and iOS Identity Engine SDKs represent the sign-in flow as a state machine. You initialize the machine with the details of your Okta Application Integration, request the initial step in the flow, and cycle through responding to steps until either the user signs in, cancels, or an error occurs.

Reviewer 2: Marking this as resolved until we actually agree what to call it.

<div class="common-image-format">

> ![A diagram showing the sign-in flow.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-basic-flow.png "A diagram that shows the sign-in flow.")

Author: Diagram needs revision. It finishes on success, cancel, or error. I'lll work with Art.

> ![A diagram showing the sign-in flow.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-basic-flow.png "A diagram that shows the sign-in flow.")

Reviewer 3: Okay.

> ![A diagram showing the sign-in flow.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-basic-flow.png "A diagram that shows the sign-in flow.")

Reviewer 3: sg

The Android and iOS Identity Engine SDKs represent the sign-in flow as a state machine.
You initialize the machine with the details of your Okta Application Integration, request
the initial step in the flow, and cycle through responding to steps until either the user
is signed in, cancels, or an error occurs.

<div class="common-image-format">

![A diagram showing the sign-in flow.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-basic-flow.png "A diagram that shows the sign-in flow.")

</div>

Each sign-in step may include one or more possible user actions, such as:
- Choosing an authenticator, such as Okta Verify or security questions.
- Entering a One-Time Passcode (OTP).
- Cancelling the sign-in flow.

## Sign-in objects

Each step in the sign-in flow is represented by a number of different SDK objects:

<div class="common-image-format">

![A diagram showing the SDK objects and their relationships.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-objects.png "A diagram that shows the SDK objects for the sign in flow and the relationships between them.")

</div>

> 

Author: See the comments above. This is a different type of diagram. The first one is a flow diagram. This is an entity relationship diagram that shows how a response is made up of various other objects as well as the cardinality of the relationship.

> 

Reviewer 2: I realise that but that's part of the problem I pointed out. There isn't a second flow diagram then which repeats the steps in the first but at the detail level of relationship diagram.

> 

Author: Sent you a possible diagram on Slack. Let me know what you think... this is a lot harder than I thought though.

> - **Authenticator:** Represents a type, or factor for verifying the identity of a user, such as a password or OTP.

Reviewer 3: Although not perfect, you can read this Okta Help article to gain more insight on factors and authenticators: https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/Content/Topics/identity-engine/authenticators/configure-authenticators.htm

> - **Authenticator:** Represents a type, or factor for verifying the identity of a user, such as a password or OTP.

Author: Is there suggested wording for the `Authenticator` object? The goal is to merge this tomorrow and it's already close to dinner time here.

> - **Authenticator:** Represents a type, or factor for verifying the identity of a user, such as a password or OTP.

Author: or perhaps...

> - **Authenticator:** Represents something used to verify the identity of the user, such as Okta Verify, or a password.

And does this mean the use of "multifactor" in the paragraph on line 22 (the one below the heading ## Sign-in flow) incorrect?

> - **Authenticator:** Represents a type, or factor for verifying the identity of a user, such as a password or OTP.

Reviewer 3: Yes that works better. Regarding "multifactor", see my latest comment.

> - **Authenticator:** Represents a type, or factor for verifying the identity of a user, such as a password or OTP.

Author: Which comment? There's no comment I can find that defines multifactor and the content in the suggested link doesn't make it clear either, at least in terms of how the concepts related together (Authenticator, Factor, Multifactor, Method)

- **Client:** Represents the session during the sign-on flow.

## Objects and the flow

<div class="common-image-format">

> ![A diagram showing the relationship between the SDK objects the sign-in flow.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-objects-and-flow.png "A diagram that shows the main objects associated with each stepp in the sign-in flow.")

Author: I let Art know.

> ![A diagram showing the relationship between the SDK objects the sign-in flow.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-objects-and-flow.png "A diagram that shows the main objects associated with each stepp in the sign-in flow.")

Reviewer 3: sg

> ![A diagram showing the relationship between the SDK objects the sign-in flow.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-objects-and-flow.png "A diagram that shows the main objects associated with each stepp in the sign-in flow.")

Author: ?sg?

Some parts of the sign-in flow are the same:

- Add the SDK to your app.
- Configure the SDK.
- Initialize the client and start the flow.
- Process the response.
- Request a token.
- Sign the user out.

### Add the SDK

<StackSnippet snippet="adddependency" />

### Create and manage configurations

A _Configuration_ contains the settings used by the SDK to connect to an Okta Application Integration:

| Value         | Description |
| :------------ | :---------- |
| Issuer        | The Oauth 2.0 URL for the Okta org, such as `https://oie-123456.oktapreview.com/oauth2/default`. |
| Client ID     | The ID of the Okta Application Integration from the Okta Admin Console.  |
| Redirect URI  | A callback URI for launching the mobile app, such as `com.example.oie-123456:/callback`. |
| Scopes        | A space separated list of the requested access scopes for the app. |

The configuration information in a shipping app is usually static. You can initialize the
configuration values directly in the code or by reading them in from a file. During
development you may want to provide a way to edit configuration values.

<StackSnippet snippet="loadingaconfiguration" />

### Start sign-in

> Start the sign-in flow by first creating an SDK client using a configuration, and then requesting the first step.

Author: Change made. It will show in the next commit.

<StackSnippet snippet="initializingsdksession" />

### Process the response

The steps for processing a response are:
1. Check for a successful sign-in flow.
1. Check for messages, such as an invalid password.
1. Check for remediations.
1. Process the remediations.
1. Process the authenticators.

After the user enters the required information, update the remediation and request the next step.

<StackSnippet snippet="processresponse" />

### Complete the sign in flow

> Check the response for the user successfully signing in flow at each step of the flow. When the user is signed in, exchange the remediation for an access token, and then exit the flow.

Author: Nice catch of a crash paragraph 😄, though the use of "response" is intentional. How about:

> Check the response for a successful sign in at each step of the flow.

> The configuration information in a shipping app is usually static. You can initialize the configuration values directly in the code or by reading them in from a file. During development you may want to provide a way to edit configuration values.

Author: I made the first change (read them from a file) but am not sure about the second. As far as I can tell "During development" is not a clause, and neither Susan nor Dan had issue with the sentence. If @danielmaharry-okta also thinks it's an issue I'm fine changing it.

> The configuration information in a shipping app is usually static. You can initialize the configuration values directly in the code or by reading them in from a file. During development you may want to provide a way to edit configuration values.

Reviewer 3: I'll leave this one to yourself and Daniel to make the call.

> Start the sign-in flow by creating an SDK client using a configuration, and then requesting the first step.

Author: I debated that one... In this case I'm referring to a concept, the configuration for the SDK client, rather than to a specific instance of the Configuration object. I'm fine either way.

> Start the sign-in flow by creating an SDK client using a configuration, and then requesting the first step.

Reviewer 3: I think it's going to be ambiguous to readers. Could we say "build configuration" here?

> Start the sign-in flow by creating an SDK client using a configuration, and then requesting the first step.

Author: How about modifying it to "an initialized configuration object" or something similar?

The section above defines what that is, so the context should either be clear (reading through the guide) or easy to locate (the word configuration appears several times.)

> Start the sign-in flow by creating an SDK client using a configuration, and then requesting the first step.

Reviewer 2: You could just delete "using a configuration". The code demonstrates this anyway.

> Start the sign-in flow by creating an SDK client using a configuration, and then requesting the first step.

Author: @danielmaharry-okta , that's a great suggestion. Done.

<StackSnippet snippet="processresponse" />

### Complete the sign in flow

> Check the response for a successful sign in at each step of the flow. When the user is signed in, exchange the remediation for an access token, and then exit the flow.

Author: You may be looking at an older copy. This is from the currently pushed PR commit (and is identical to your suggestion):

> Check for a successful completion of the sign-in flow at each step, and in the case of success, exchange the remediation for an access token and exit the flow.

> Check the response for a successful sign in at each step of the flow. When the user is signed in, exchange the remediation for an access token, and then exit the flow.

Reviewer 3: sg

> Check the response for a successful sign in at each step of the flow. When the user is signed in, exchange the remediation for an access token, and then exit the flow.

Author: ?sg?

<StackSnippet snippet="gettingatoken" />

### Sign out a user

Sign out a user by revoking the access token granted when the user signed in, and by revoking a refresh token if one exists.

<StackSnippet snippet="signingout" />

## Sign-in flow UI

There are two general approaches for adding the sign-in flow to your app: add a fixed number of authentication methods, possibly in a fixed order, or generate the user interface dynamically based on the response at each step.

> For a fixed number of methods (a static UI), you create appropriate views and populate them from the response. Using a static UI introduces risk as both the authentication methods and the order may be changed at any time by an administrator of your Okta org. There are three requirements to reduce that risk:

Author: The suggestion changes the semantics of the paragraph. The first suggestion changes the subject of the first paragraph which is the static UI, not creating the appropriate views. The second suggestion reduces the urgency of the story of this article: create dynamic views because anything else has lots of risks including that the admin can change things at anytime by someone else.

Unless there's reasons to the contrary I'll keep the original.

> For a fixed number of methods (a static UI), you create appropriate views and populate them from the response. Using a static UI introduces risk as both the authentication methods and the order may be changed at any time by an administrator of your Okta org. There are three requirements to reduce that risk:

Reviewer 3: Agreed.

- Update the code in the app before policy changes are enabled.
- The updated app can be distributed to users before the policy changes are enabled.
- Ensure that the app is updated on all your users' devices.

> The usual way to satisfy the last condition is with an enterprise managed workforce app. Also note that there's additional risk as external events may require an immediate policy change that can result in the inability of mobile users to sign in.

Author: The hyphen should be in the version that's in the PR as it's in my version and shows as already pushed.

I'm not sure about the use of "an" as that is singular and the risks are plural. I've change it from "risk" to "risks". Finally I'm also not sure about the common as "Also" doesn't seem to be a clause... same comment on Dan or Susan.

> The usual way to satisfy the last condition is with an enterprise managed workforce app. Also note that there's additional risk as external events may require an immediate policy change that can result in the inability of mobile users to sign in.

Reviewer 3: 1. Changing to "risks" works for me.  2. I'm indifferent about the comma after the "also" because I feel it could also be omitted. I'll leave that decision to you.

---
title: Overview of the mobile Identity Engine SDK
---

<div class="oie-embedded-sdk">

> Design the implementation of sign-in for your mobile app by understanding the

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

representation of the flow, and with examples of the common parts.

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

## Introduction

Integrate the Okta sign-in flow into your app in one of two ways: redirect the request to

> Okta which handles the flow in it's own window, or handle each step in the flow by

Author: Nice catch. Fixed in the next commit.

building the appropriate user interface elements, capturing the information, and updating
Okta.

This guide is an overview of building your own user interface. For information on the redirect model, see <StackSnippet snippet="redirectquickstart" inline />.

## Sign-in flow

> Okta supports many ways of authenticating the identity of a user during sign-in. An Okta org administrator creates _policies_, different mixes of authentication methods (also

Author: I fixed the sign-in flow comment.

I emphasized policies because this the first time the term is used in this guide and the developer may have never seen it before. I'm using emphasis to indicate "new word you need to remember." Is that OK?

called factors), and assigns them to apps, people, groups, and more. Policies also
configure how many authentication methods are required (multifactor), and which methods
are optional. This results in a large number of possible combinations for the different
factors and steps to complete the sign-in flow.

The Android and iOS Identity Engine SDKs represent the sign-in flow as a state machine.
You initialize the machine with the details of your Okta Application Integration, request
the initial step in the flow, and cycle through responding to steps until either the user
is signed in, cancels, or an error occurs.

<div class="common-image-format">

![A diagram showing the sign-in flow.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-basic-flow.png "A diagram that shows the sign-in flow.")

</div>

Each sign-in step may include one or more possible user actions, such as:

> - Choosing an authenticator, such as Okta Verify or WebAuthN.

Reviewer 4: We shouldn't mention `WebAuthN`, it's not a supported feature in the mobile SDKs (yet)! Maybe replace it with SMS/Voice?

Author: I've replaced WebAuthN as an example, that way we don't incur the maintenance cost of updating when WebAuthN is supported.

> - Entering a One Time Passcode (OTP).

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

> - Cancelling the sign-in.

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

## Sign-in objects

> Each step in the flow is represented by a _Response_ which contains the information used

Author: I'm using emphasis because this is a technical term that the developer may never have seen and it's important for them to remember the definition. It's capitalized because both the iOS and Android IDX SDKs include an object with that name.

I though of using code voice, would that be more appropriate?

> Each step in the flow is represented by a _Response_ which contains the information used

Reviewer 5: Ah it's an object, my bad. Leave it capitalized. I struggle with the whole "italics for emphasis" use case. I see your point. I like your definition list approach suggested.

for creating the UI and general state information. The response is also used to cancel the

> sign-in, or retrieve an access token after the sign-in succeeds.

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

> The UI information is divided between two objects in the response, authenticators and

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

> remediations. An _Authenticator_ represents a type, or factor for verifying the identity

Author: See common on Response above. Code voice?

> remediations. An _Authenticator_ represents a type, or factor for verifying the identity

Reviewer 5: I like your definition list approach suggested.  Thanks for explaining above.

> of a user, such as a username and password, or Okta Verify. A _Method_ represents a

Author: Same comment as Response. Code voice?

> of a user, such as a username and password, or Okta Verify. A _Method_ represents a

Reviewer 5: I like your definition list approach suggested.

channel for an authenticator, such as using email or SMS for an OTP. An authenticator may

> have multiple methods. A _Remediation_ represents a user action and usually contains most

Author: Same comment as Response. Code voice?

> have multiple methods. A _Remediation_ represents a user action and usually contains most

Reviewer 5: I like your definition list approach suggested.

of the information for a step. Each response may contain multiple remediations and
authenticators.

> 

Author: I debated doing that. I chose a paragraph format because I wanted to build the story of the objects and how they're interrelated. I'm totally open to doing it that way if it makes more sense. Perhaps as a definition list as that may solve the emphasis/code issue, something like:

- **Reponse:** Represents...
- **Authenticator:** Represents...

Thoughts?

> 

Reviewer 5: yes this is an excellent approach. do it as a definition list. thank you!

> Some common types of user action are represented by a _Capability_. These include

Author: Same comment as Response.

> requesting a new OTP, or a password reset request. Remediations, authenticators, and

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

> methods may contain capabilities.

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure what this means by a method can contain a capability.

Author: No longer an issue as that text has been replaced with a definition list.

> A _Form_ inside the remediation represents the user action in a collection of _Field_

Author: Same comment as Response.

objects. Most fields represent something that's displayed in the UI, either a static
element, such as a label, or a user input, such as a selection list. The field also

> contains state information, such as whether the associated value is required or secret.

Author: Thanks, I'm going to remove "or secret" because it would take longer to describe properly. It's usually associated with a text entry field for passwords and similar and means that the contents of the field are "secure." (and I didn't like that explanation either!) Fix is in the next commit.

Options, or lists of choices, are represented by a collection of fields. A field may also

> contain a form which contains more fields.

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

<div class="common-image-format">

> ![A diagram showing the SDK objects and their relationships.](/img/mobile-sdk/mobile-idx-objects.png "A diagram that shows the SDK objects for the sign in flow and the relationships between them.")

Reviewer 4: I think we should split capabilities into 2 boxes ([IdxRemediationCapability](https://github.com/okta/okta-idx-android/blob/master/idx-kotlin/src/main/java/com/okta/idx/kotlin/dto/IdxRemediation.kt#L84), [IdxAuthenticatorCapability](https://github.com/okta/okta-idx-android/blob/master/idx-kotlin/src/main/java/com/okta/idx/kotlin/dto/IdxAuthenticator.kt#L83))

While they're conceptually VERY similar, they're not the same.

Author: I updated the diagram. It will be in the next commit... though I kept the terms relatively generic.

</div>

## Common parts of the flow

Some parts of the sign-in flow are the same:

- Add the SDK to your app.
- Configure the SDK.
- Initialize the client and start the flow.
- Process the response.
- Request a token.

> - Sign-out the user.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Sign the user out.
```

Author: Fix is in the next commit.

### Add the SDK

<StackSnippet snippet="adddependency" />

### Create and manage configurations

> A _Configuration_ contains the settings used by the SDK to connect to an Okta Application Integration:

Author: Same comment as Response.

| Value         | Description |
| :------------ | :---------- |

> | Issuer        | The Oauth2 URL for the Okta Org, such as `https://oie-123456.oktapreview.com/oauth2/default`. |

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

> | Client ID     | The ID of the Okta Application Integration from the Okta Admin console.  |

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

> | Client secret | An optional shared secret for accessing the Application Integration. |

Reviewer 4: Client secrets should not be used in mobile!!

Author: I don't mind one way or the other. I included it because it's explicitly mentioned in the SDK. @mikenachbaur-okta, comments?

I'll go with whatever you folks choose.

Reviewer 4: It's available in the swift SDK for usage on the backend via linux or similar. If we're gearing this towards mobile, it should be strictly prohibited.

Author: I've removed the client secret from both the table and the iOS snippet.

| Redirect URI  | A callback URI for launching the mobile app, such as `com.example.oie-123456:/callback`. |
| Scopes        | A space separated list of the requested access scopes for the app. |

The configuration information in a shipping app is usually static. You can initialize the
configuration values directly in the code or by reading them in from a file. During
development you may want to provide a way to edit configuration values.

<StackSnippet snippet="loadingaconfiguration" />

### Start sign-in

Start the sign-in flow by first creating an SDK client using a configuration, and then requesting the first step.

<StackSnippet snippet="initializingsdksession" />

### Process the response

> The steps for processing a response are:

Reviewer 4: "Check" and "Process" are somewhat non descriptive. I'd recommend we find better alternatives.

Author: "Process" is intentionally generic as the actions taken for the response vary considerably, from finding out the user is now signed-in to building a UI from the remediations and authenticators.

I'm open to suggests for "Check". I used it because the step checks for the condition.

> 1. Check for a successful sign-in.

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

1. Check for messages, such as an invalid password.
1. Check for remediations.
1. Process the remediations.
1. Process the authenticators.

After the user enters the required information, update the remediation and request the next step.

<StackSnippet snippet="processresponse" />

> ### Complete sign in

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

> Check the response for a successful sign-in at each step of the flow. When the user is

Author: Slightly modified by using:
"the user successfully signing in"

> signed-in, exchange the session token for an access token, and then exit the flow.

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

<StackSnippet snippet="gettingatoken" />

> ### Sign out a user

Reviewer 4: Mentioned earlier too, but outside of the betas, we don't currently support storing tokens (outside of the app developer handling it). I think it's fine if we skip this initially.

Author: Saving tokens is explicitly mentioned in the iOS SDK and in several guides. It's the only way to know if a user is currently signed in when they relaunch the app.

Unless there's a strong reason not to included this, I'm planning on keeping it.

> Sign out a user by revoking the access token granted by signing in, and by revoking a

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Sign out a user by revoking the access token granted when the user signed in, and by revoking a
```

Author: Nice catch. Fixed in the next build.

refresh token if one exists.

<StackSnippet snippet="signingout" />

## Sign-in flow UI

There are two general approaches for adding the sign-in flow to your app: add a fixed

> number of authentication methods possibly in a fixed order, or generate the user interface

Author: That use of "possible" doesn't fit the meaning or intent of that part of the sentence. The meaning is "implement a fixed number of authentication methods which may possibly be implemented so that the user goes through them in a fixed order." I'm going to commit what I think is a simple solution by adding a comma:

> ... number of authentication methods, possibly in a fixed order, or

dynamically based on the response at each step.

For a fixed number of methods, you create appropriate views and populate them from the

> response. Using fixed methods does introduce risk as authentication methods may be added

Reviewer 4: We should emphasize the risk introduced via this approach! (maybe make it red or bold or something)

Author: First it's important to understand that a developer reading this document either hasn't implemented Okta in their app, or has, but it isn't going the way they want. They don't have any of the background in the SDK that we have or any understanding of the true complexity involved.

I had originally considered a Note or Warning, but doing that looses the flow of the "story", of the journey that we're leading the developer through. If you go through the article you see that I build to this "climax":
You can add sign-in in two ways: let Okta handle it or do it yourself.
(choose do it yourself)
(start slow...)
Policies control how users' sign-in
Admins (not the app developer) control how many and which ones
There's lots so there's lots of combinations
Build your app to step through the different access methods
Here's how those steps are represented (Sign-in objects)
Here's some common code (Common parts of the flow and it's heading)
(they finish the common code and in the back of their mind is "but how do I parse remediations and authenticators" into a UI, hence the final section...)
The UI section starts by bringing static and dynamic implementations top of mind (some developers will never think of dynamic until now)
It then builds the "do it dynamically" case by showing more and more risk with the static way: the 2nd paragraph introduces "some risk", the bullet points start to make it clear how hard it is to update apps, the 3rd paragraph deals with "but it's an enterprise app", and the 4th drives the point home.

If I want to emphasize a point in our docs my only choice is a Note or perhaps Warning box (per the style guide.) Both of those make it really hard to lead the developer through the thought process of "oh, I should do dynamic" because they interrupt that flow.

And yes, I really do think through this kind of stuff ;-)

Based on that, are you OK with the way it is?

> response. Using fixed methods does introduce risk as authentication methods may be added

Author: I used that order of concepts intentionally. I want to the developer journey for that sentence to be:
"You can use a static UI but doing so has risk because not just the order of methods, but the methods themselves can change at any time by someone else."

Thoughts?

> response. Using fixed methods does introduce risk as authentication methods may be added

Reviewer 5: I like what you said above better than what you have. :)

> response. Using fixed methods does introduce risk as authentication methods may be added

Author: Changed it to read:

> For a fixed number of methods (a static UI), you create appropriate views and populate them from the response. Using a static UI introduces risk as both the authentication methods and the order may be changed at any time by an administrator of your Okta org.

> or removed by the Okta administrator. There are three requirements to reduce that risk:

Author: This looks like the same as the previous change?

> or removed by the Okta administrator. There are three requirements to reduce that risk:

Reviewer 5: sure that's fine - sometimes my personal preferences get in the way when I review. I'll try to be better about that.

> or removed by the Okta administrator. There are three requirements to reduce that risk:

Author: To me that's what makes review powerful. Seeing your comments and preferences challenges my assumptions about what I wrote... after all, it's not my documentation, it's Okta documentation.

I can understand the concern because you're effectively acting as the editorial department. You can always call out "this is a preference".

BTW, for something like the emphasized and capitalized terms comment above (or any time you see a repeated pattern that you want changed), an option is to correct one or two of them, and make a note in the last correct to update all occurrences.

> or removed by the Okta administrator. There are three requirements to reduce that risk:

Reviewer 5: Will do just point out "this is a preference". Thanks!
I typically do just say "update all occurrences" but it was Friday afternoon of Good Friday. I was brain dead. haha

> - The code in the app can be updated before policy changes are enabled.

Author: Thank you for fixing that! It was definitely a crash paragraph/point. 
Fix is in the next commit.

- The updated app can be distributed to users before the policy changes are enabled.

> - You can ensure that the app is updated on all your users' devices.

Author: Again, thanks. Fix is in the next commit.

The usual way to satisfy the last condition is with an enterprise managed workforce app.
Also note that there's additional risk as external events may require an immediate policy

> change that can result in the inability of mobile users to sign-in.

Author: Fix is in the next commit.

For consumer apps, and to reduce the risk for enterprise apps, a safer choice is building

> the user interface from the current sign-in step, by presenting a dynamic UI.

Reviewer 4: We should emphasize this is the better approach! And list benefits.

Author: That happens in a [later phase of the project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11F8u2uxmiFoI9-pcvJYdglD7HVRUmuD927C7qeUW5rQ/edit#heading=h.erkvwiam67vk). This phase is about creating the background information for the SDKs and the argument flow for "do it dynamically". But before we can push dynamic UI we need a way for them to implement it easily (Phase 3).
